# School District Data Analysis

## Purpose of the School District Analysis

The overall purpose of this School District Analysis was to provide an overview of the key metrics for the district and each school. Performance metrics were analyzed, specifically to determine the top five and bottom five performing schools and find the average math and reading scores by students in each grade level at each school. Furthermore, school performance was evaluated based on the budget per student, school size, and school performance based on the type of school. The final analysis included a higher level coding element to account for academic dishonesty by replacing math and reading scores for Thomas High School at the ninth grade level, specifically. 

## Results

### School District metrics and the effect of data changes

- How is the district summary affected by changes in the data? After the math and reading scores were replaced for ninth graders at Thomas High School, the district summary averages were slightly affected. The average math score stayed the same, at 78.9, and the average reading score also was flat at 81.9. The passing math percentage decreased perhaps slightly, from 74.9% to 74.8%, and the passing reading score also decreased slightly, from 85.8% to 85.7%. The overall passing rate decreased slightly as well, from 65.2% to 64.9%. (link to per school summary DF). 

- How is the school summary affected by changes in the data? The original school summary showed that Thomas High School had a passing math percentage of 93.39%, and a passing reading percentage of 97.31%, and overall passing percentage of 90.95%. Once the data was updated to remove the ninth graders potentially suspect scores, the passing math percentage dropped to 66.91%, passing reading percentage dropped to 69.66%, and the overall passing percentage dropped to 65.07%. 

- How does replacing the ninth graders’ math and reading scores affect Thomas High School’s performance relative to the other schools? Thomas High School was initially in the top five schools; once the data was changed, it was no longer in the top five. Once Thomas High School dropped out of the top five schools, it allowed Pena High School to break the top five, with no change from the other four schools. 

- How does replacing the ninth-grade scores affect the following:
    - Math and reading scores by grade – Ninth graders originally had scored 83.59 for math, and 83.7 for reading. Once the ninth grade scores were removed, the other classes grades were unchanged from the original analysis. Math scores for 10th graders were 83.08, 11th graders were 83.19, and 12th graders were 83.50. Reading scores for 10th graders were 84.25, 11th graders were 83.59, and 12th graders were 83.83.  
    - Scores by school spending – Overall, the lower spending ranges per student were correlated with higher average math and reading scores as well as passing percentages of math and reading, as well as overall passing percentages. While Thomas High School maintained its spending range per student of $630-644, there was an impact to the removal of the 9th grade scores to the spending summary. In the $630-644 range, while there were no changes to the average math and reading scores, the passing math and passing reading percentages and overall passing percentag was affected. Passing math percentage dropped from 73% to 67%, reading percentage dropped from 84% to 77%, and overall passing droped from 63% to 56%. (link to image of DF). 
    - Scores by school size – Smaller school sizes had higher net math and reading scores and passing scores. Larger schools had lower math and reading average scores and passing percentages, with the largest school size (2000-5000 students) the lowest overall passing score of 58%. While the overall analysis remains the same – smaller school sizes had higher scores and passing percentages – this data set was also impacted by removing the ninth grade scores from Thomas High School. Thomas High School is a “medium” sized school, and removing the ninth grade scores caused the passing math percentage and passing reading percentages to drop from 94% and 97% to 88% and 91%, respectively. The overall passing percentage also dropped from 91% to 85%. (link to image of DF).
    - Scores by school type – Charter schools had higher math and reading average scores and passing percentages as compared to district school types. There was no change in the overall district school scoring, though the charter school scores dropped due to the replacement of ninth grade scores at Thomas High School. The percentage passing math dropped from 94% to 90%, and the percent passing reading dropped from 97% to 93%. The overall passing percentage for charter schools also dropped, from 90% to 87%. (link to image of DF). 

## Summary 

The four major changes to the school district analysis after reading and math scores were replaced for ninth grade students at Thomas High School include the overall ranking of this high school. Initially in the top five performing schools, it is now a mid-tier, neither in the top or in the bottom five. Consistently, the passing math, passing reading, and overall passing percentages declined for Thomas High School, and this pattern repeated itself in other metrics, including scores by school spending, scores by school size, and scores by school size, as well as for the overall district summary. (Summary DF)
